|Title | Summary|aliases
|-|-|-|
|Best Practices for Using HAProxy in TiDB|This document describes best practices for configuration and usage of HAProxy in TiDB.|/docs/dev/best-practices/haproxy-best-practices/
# **Best Practices for Using HAProxy in TiDB**
This document describes best practices for configuration and usage of HAProxy in TiDB. HAProxy provides load balancing for TCP-based applications. From TiDB clients, you can manipulate data just by connecting to the floating virtual IP address provided by HAProxy, which helps to achieve load balance in the TiDB server layer.
## HAProxy overview
HAProxy is free, open-source software written in C language that provides a high availability load balancer and proxy server for TCP and HTTP-based applications. Because of its fast and efficient use of CPU and memory, HAProxy is now widely used by many well-known websites such as GitHub, Bitbucket, Stack Overflow, Reddit, Tumblr, Twitter, Tuenti, and AWS (Amazon Web Services).

HAProxy is written in the year 2000 by Willy Tarreau, the core contributor to the Linux kernel, who is still responsible for the maintenance of the project and provides free software updates in the open-source community. In this guide, HAProxy 2.5.0 is used. It is recommended to use the latest stable version. See the released version of HAProxy for details.

## **Basic features**
***
- High Availability：HAProxy provides high availability with support for a graceful shutdown and a seamless switchover;
- Load Balancing: Two major proxy modes are supported: TCP, also known as layer 4, and HTTP, also known as layer 7. No less than 9 load balancing algorithms are supported, such as roundrobin, leastconn and random;
- Health Check: HAProxy periodically checks the status of HTTP or TCP mode of the server;
- Sticky Session: HAProxy can stick a client to a specific server for the duration when the application does not support sticky sessions;
- SSL: HTTPS communication and resolution are supported;
- Monitoring and Statistics: Through the web page, you can monitor the service state and traffic flow in real time.


